# TTM4100 KOMMUNIKASJON – TJENESTER OG NETT, 15. mai 2018

## Del 1: True - False questionsl (50 points)

**1.1.1**: The Real-Time Protocol (RTP) typically uses the TCP protocol for transport. `FALSE`

**1.1.2**: Domain Name System (DNS) caching is used to improve delay performance and reduce the number of DNS messages traversing the Internet. `TRUE` 

**1.1.3**: Propagation delay is given by the physical properties of the medium used, while the transmission delay is given by the equipment (e.g. electronics or optics) used to push bits onto the medium. `TRUE`

**1.1.4**: In the five-layer Internet protocol stack, the Link layer is placed between the Transport layer and the Network layer. `FALSE`

**1.1.5**: The User Datagram Protocol (UDP) provides a more reliable transport service than the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP). `FALSE`

**1.1.6**: The signal propagation speed of an optical fiber is almost the same as the speed of light in air. `FALSE` (The speed of light is slowed down when it goes through matter, glass)

**1.1.7**: When using protocol encapsulation the payload field at a given protocol layer contains the full protocol unit from the layer above, including higher layer address information. `TRUE`

**1.1.8**: All web servers must listen for client requests on port 80. `FALSE`

**1.1.9**: When streaming stored video through the Internet, we can use UDP as the transport layer protocol. `TRUE`

**1.1.10**: The network load is reflected in the end-to-end delay of the application. `TRUE`

***

## 1.2 Communication security and link layer (10 points)

**1.2.1**: With Carrier Sense Multiple Access/Collision Detection (CSMA/CD), when a collision is detected, the transmitting node stops its transmission and uses some procedure/rule to determine when it should attempt to transmit the next time. `TRUE`

**1.2.2**: SSL (Secure Socket Layer) is used at the network layer to secure IP communication. `FALSE` (Below application and above transport)

**1.2.3**: A Cryptographic Hash Function is used to provide message confidentiality. `FALSE`

**1.2.4**: The “Caesar cipher” is an example of a symmetric key algorithm for encrypting data. `TRUE`

**1.2.5**: With the two-dimensional parity check scheme, the receiver can detect a double bit error. `TRUE`

**1.2.6**: FEC (Forward Error Correction) techniques will increase the number of required sender retransmissions. `FALSE`

**1.2.7**: Operating systems always use MAC (Medium Access Control) based IPv6 addresses. `FALSE`

**1.2.8**: Using a VPN client (Virtual Private Network) on a device connected to an unencrypted wireless local area network (WLAN), the various IP addresses you communicate with cannot be seen by others connected to the same WLAN subnet. `TRUE` 

**1.2.9**: Using a VPN client (Virtual Private Network) on a device connected to an unencrypted wireless local area network (WLAN), hinders others connected to the same WLAN subnet to see which local IP address you are assigned. `FALSE`

**1.2.10**: In public key cryptography, all keys are public but the algorithm used is secret. `FALSE`

***

## 1.3 Wireless and mobile communication (10 points)
**1.3.1**: An AP (“Access Point”) sends beacon frames periodically to inform potential wireless devices about its existence. `TRUE`

**1.3.2**: An “infrastructure wireless LAN” has no AP (“Access Point”). `FALSE`

**1.3.3**: Radio transmission in the 3G (UMTS) mobile system is based on variants of the CDMA (“Code Division Multiple Access”) principle. `TRUE`

**1.3.4**: Different variants of the WiFi (802.11xx) LAN standard use the 2.4 GHz frequency range or the 5 GHz frequency range, or both, for communication `TRUE`

**1.3.5**: In a WiFi (802.11) LAN the Request-to-Send (RTS) and Clear-to-Send (CTS) frames are used to reserve access to the communication channel. `TRUE`

**1.3.6**: Communication over a radio channel is more susceptible to noise than communication over a fiber or copper channel. `TRUE`

**1.3.7**: The 4G (LTE) mobile architecture has an all-Internet Protocol (all-IP) core network. `TRUE`

**1.3.8**: Frames sent over a WiFi (802.11) LAN are never acknowledged. `FALSE`

**1.3.9**: The 2G (GSM) mobile architecture is a pure circuit-switched network, made mainly for voice conversations. `TRUE`

**1.3.10**: An 802.11 wireless LAN uses CSMA/CD as medium access protocol. `FALSE`

***

## 1.4 Transport Layer (10 points)

**1.4.1**: TCP has implemented both end-to-end flow control and congestion control. `TRUE`

**1.4.2**: UDP has no congestion control implemented. `TRUE`

**1.4.3**: UDP has implemented end-to-end flow control.`FALSE`

**1.4.4**: When TCP is used, the TCP port number of the destination must be the same as the TCP port number of the source. `FALSE`

**1.4.5**:  TCP flow control is implemented through a window variable at the sender side, indicating the available buffer space at the receiver side. `TRUE`

**1.4.6**: The protocol header of the TCP segment contains source and destination ports and IP addresses of both sender and receiver. `FALSE`

**1.4.7**: Transport layer protocols are always present both in end-systems and in network routers. `FALSE`

**1.4.8**: It is primarily the application requirements that decides the complexity of the transport protocol.`FALSE`

**1.4.9**: In TCP a “three-way handshake” is used to establish a connection before starting to transfer data. `TRUE`

**1.4.10**: Sequence numbers start counting from zero after a new TCP connection is established. `FALSE`

***

## 1.5 Network Layer (10 points)

**1.5.1**: The Internet Protocol (IP) guarantees that the packets will arrive in the right sequence. `FALSE`

**1.5.2**: A Class C IP subnet, which has a CIDR address of the form a.b.c.d/24, has enough addresses for about 500 hosts. `FALSE`

**1.5.3**: The IPv4 address space is much larger than the IPv6 address space. `FALSE`

**1.5.4**: With the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP), a host may be assigned an IP address that is different each time the host is connected to the network. `TRUE`

**1.5.5**: The main purpose of NAT (Network Address Translation) is to allow for the re-use of the IPv4 subnet addresses. `TRUE`

**1.5.6**: Datagram fragmentation is a result of link layers having different abilities in which packet sizes they can carry. `TRUE`

**1.5.7**: The Internet is a virtual circuit network at the network (IP protocol) layer. `FALSE`

**1.5.8**: When forwarding packets, a router updates the IP address with the address of the next router. `FALSE`

**1.5.9**: Within the same subnet, it is the network part of the IP-address which identifies the receiver. `FALSE`

**1.5.10**: It is possible to actively provoke error messages from ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol). `TRUE`


